**Python Basics: Flow Control, Loops, Functions**

1. Conditionals
  1. Get the radius value as input and calculate the area of the circle. If the input is numeric, display the result otherwise display any other message.
  2. If the user enters numeric value then asks user to for either perimeter or area calculation and display accordingly
  3. students\_profile=

{'Duy': ['Python', 'Database', 'ML'], 'Laxmi': ['Python', 'Database', 'ML'],

'Antonio': ['Python', 'Database', 'ML'],'Maria': ['Python', 'Database', 'ML']}

Check if there is a student named 'Maria' in students\_profile dictionary. If exists remove 'ML' from her course

  1. Take the input from the user as a substring. If that substring is present in string then display substring is present otherwise substring is not present
  2. Distance Metrics are important to calculate the similarity between the vectors. They are used in both supervised and unsupervised machine learning problems. Given the points (1,2,3) and (4,5,6), write a python conditional statement to print the distance for the order 1,2,3,4. If the order is 1 then it is **L1 norm(Manhattan distance)**, order 2 is **L2 norm(Euclidean distance)** and the generalized distance is given by **Minkowski equation**.

1. Loop:
  1. Write a multiplication table for any given number using both for and while loop
  2. DNA is coded using 4 nitrogen bases with the symbols A,T,G,C. Given the template string dna\_template='AATCCGAAAATTCGGGAATTTTCGCGT' , generate the complementary dna template with the mapping

mapper={"T":"A","A":"T","G":"C","C":"G"}

  1. Generate the list f\_series=x=[0,1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21,34,55,89,144]. Looks Familiar? This is Fibonacci series where x[0]=0,x[1]=1, and x[n]=x[n-1]+x[n-2] for n\>1
  2. Generate a list of n numbers of prime numbers
  3. Perform the **minmax normalization** to the range [0,1] for the data1 and minmax normalization to the range [-1,1] for the data2

data1=[1,17,12,15,30,60,48,51,89,92,54,8], use

X\_scaled = (X - X\_min) / (X\_max - X\_min)

data2=[-13,2,-1,7,22,-32,5,15,-9,13,3,-2], use

X\_scaled = 2 \* (X - X\_min) / (X\_max - X\_min) - 1

The general formula for scaling in the range [a,b] is

X\_scaled = (b-a) \* (X - X\_min) / (X\_max - X\_min) + a

  1. Understand how sorting algorithms work(bubble,selection,insertion). Implement them of your own. Also compare time complexities.

1. Functions: For each of the functions you create, write the docstrings as well. Docstring is important to get information about a particular function. Docstring is string literals that should be present right after function definition within triple quotations. One can get information about a function as an example by running myfunction **.\_\_doc\_\_**
  1. Write a function **factorial** of a given number
  2. Write a function that takes two arguments: activation\_function name and value that returns the output of specific activation\_function. Implement for **sigmoid, binary step function, relu, leaky rely, tanh**.

Eg : activation\_function('sigmoid',0) should return 0.5

  1. Write a function that returns **permutation**. Permutation is the number of ways to arrange 'r' objects form a set of 'n' objects where order matters and the formula is

P(n, r) = n! / (n - r)!. Use the factorial function from above exercise.

  1. Write a function that takes three arguments. First arguments should determine whether to return permutation or **combination** or both. Make the first argument optional and default is both if nothing is passed while calling the function.The second argument is n, which is optional and default is 10. Finally the third argument is r, which is also optional and default is 5.
  2. Implement a function that takes **any number of positional and keyword arguments**.
  3. Understand **scope of variables: LEGB Rule**
    1. Local to the function eg. variable defined in the function
    2. Enclosing or nonlocal eg. variables defined in enclosing function in nested function
    3. Global eg. variables defined within main program or module
    4. Built-in eg. Python keywords

Note: Names of global and built-in can be accessed from anywhere

Create an example of each case above to illustrate.